Over time, many industries
and their ecosystems have
been significantly affected
by the role of regulation.
The same is true in
the blockchain ecosystem.
Government and regulators play
a very important role in
the development and application
of this technology.
These regulators and entities
include: The Securities
Exchange Commission,
The Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.
What's known as FinCEN and TFI.
The Internal Revenue Service and
both state and
international bodies.
The Securities
Exchange Commission
has and continues to play
a very significant role in
the development of blockchain
and its application.
The SEC governs the offer
and sale of securities as
set forth in what's known as
the Securities Act of 1933.
Essentially, the SEC seeks
to reduce risk to investors
from poor or inadequate or
even false information.
Today, the SEC is very active
in the blockchain
space and has issued
a number of reports and
guidances about the issue
and sale of tokens.
The SEC also uses a test
known as the how we test,
which relates to whether or
not something is a security.
Moreover, because
blockchain technology
spans not only the financial
services industry,
but multiple industries and
companies both in
the US and globally,
the use and leverage of
the SEC's cyber unit has become
increasingly important
when thinking
about the application
of blockchain.
A second very important
federal markets regulator
is The Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.
Or the CFTC.
The CFTC is charged
with establishing
a regulatory environment for
investors and
market participants.
There are very specific
rules that separate
the regulation of the SEC
from the regulation of the CFTC.
In 2014, the CFTC
declared cryptocurrencies
to be a commodity and
thus subject to
the oversight of the CFTC.
The CFTC has within its purview,
the registration of
futures exchanges,
which is also important
to the use of
blockchain technology and
the trading of cryptocurrency.
Finally, the CFTC
has set forth and
approach to responsible
regulation and
the promotion of
innovation to encourage
the responsible and
positive development
of this technology.
In understanding the rules and
regulations related to
blockchain and cryptocurrency,
it's very important to recognize
the role of what's known
as FinCEN and TFI.
FinCEN refers to
the Financial Crimes
Enforcement Network and
TFI refers to
the Office of Terrorism
and Financial Intelligence.
Both of these offices
relate to and
enforce the Bank Secrecy Act.
Thus, virtual currency
exchanges and
administrators may be subject to
the rules and
regulations of the BSA.
The Bank Secrecy Act.
Ultimately, what this means is
that some of these
businesses may have to
register with FinCEN as
a money service business and
be subject to its oversight.
Importantly, the IRS or
the Internal Revenue Service,
also plays a role in the
regulation of the blockchain.
As you know, the IRS collects and
manages the revenue
of the United States.
In the blockchain space,
the IRS sets forth
the principles that apply
to transactions using
virtual currency.
In fact, it's possible that
the IRS may treat
virtual currency as property,
and therefore it
would be subject to
tax principles that also
apply to real property.
As the blockchain
ecosystem develops,
state governments have
increasingly taken note
and had the desire to play
a role in its development.
State governments
in fact recognize
that potentially
transformative power of
blockchain and thus they're
involved not only in regulation,
but also in the promotion
of innovation.
Some states such as
Delaware, or Illinois,
or Wyoming have launched
blockchain initiatives
designed to promote
and enhance the development of
this technology and
its application to business.
Other states such as New York
has specific laws that may
apply if the blockchain company
is located within that state.
In the blockchain
stake holder space,
two more entities are
important globally in
government and regulation.
First, non-US regulators
play an important role.
Secondly, international
standard-setting bodies,
which don't have
the force of law,
but do have the force
of consensus,
also are very
significantly involved in
the development of standards
related to this technology.
Global regulators
are in the process
of building rules and regulations
that relate to the application of
blockchain and the trading
of cryptocurrency.
An example of this is
the European Union,
which is implemented
a Data Protection guidance that
touches on many different
aspects of blockchain business.
As this dynamic progresses,
the harmonization of
data and laws across
countries will be important to
the innovation of
blockchain technology.
International standards
setting bodies are
also important in
the development of blockchain.
While these standard
setting bodies
do not have the force of law,
they often have consensus,
and therefore, the countries
that are involved in them take
the standards and apply them
within their own jurisdictions.
For example, the
Financial Stability Board
consists of the G20 countries,
and is currently working
on monitoring
cryptocurrency markets.
Another example is the BIS
or Bank for International
Settlements,
which is published a chapter on
the risks of cryptocurrency.
Make no mistake, as
blockchain technology and
its ecosystem
continue to develop,
international standards
setting bodies will
continue to play
an important role by studying,
issuing guidance and
recommendations,
and playing a role on
the country level,
as this technology continues
to develop and
transform business.